---
title: 'INFO Blog 2: Policies for Creative Works'
date: 2025-11-18
permalink: /posts/2025/11/INFO-blog-post-2/
tags:
  - Generative AI (GAI)
  - AI Policy
  - Case Study
  - AI Ethics
---

Originality in Crisis: AI and Copyright Policy

**News Article:**  
[ARTificial: Why Copyright Is Not the Right Policy Tool to Deal with Generative AI](https://yalelawjournal.org/forum/artificial-why-copyright-is-not-the-right-policy-tool-to-deal-with-generative-ai)

## Purpose
  This article argues why copyright law isn't quite ready to handle the complexities that arise from using Generative Artificial Intelligence (GAI), tackling ideas like originality, AI training, and authorship.

## Discussion
  1. **How should authors be compensated, and under which circumstances?**
  - The article seems to focus on the difficulty behind copyright lawsuits, mentioning that compensation in winning a copyright lawsuit wouldn't necessarily mean it reaches the original creators. They focus more on WHY we can't compensate these authors rather than on HOW we can. However, I believe authors should be compensated if they come up with an original idea. This idea of originality is also tackled in the article in the aspect of generating derivative or original works, but I mean it in the sense of literal direct usage. If AI legitimately rips off Godzilla or Mario, for example, copyright owners should be compensated. And we all know Nintendo doesn't play about Mario.

  2. **Is training with unlicensed works a fair use, or an infringing one?**
  - When touching upon the topic of unlicensed works, the article considers them to be "transformative" and therefore "fair use". They use the Authors Guild v. Google case as an example, in which, if I understood it correctly, Google wanted to digitize books from various library collections, and the Authors Guild deemed this to be copyright infringement. However, "the court ruled in favor of Google, finding that it was transformative and therefore a fair use..." But this fair-use argument seems to be a bit iffy, as the article also describes it as a "double-edged sword" and "unpredictable". Personally, if I were an author myself and did not want my book to be digitized or used to train AI models, I would be very upset and would find it infringing.
  
  3. **Are the outputs generated by GAI original or derivative works?** 
  - As mentioned in my first response, the article gets into what it means to be "original" from a legal standpoint, stating that works have to have a "modicum of creativity" to be considered original. In other words, they have to be at least a little creative, but the question of what creativity is comes into the picture. "Leading scholars in creativity and AI research" use words like "new", "surprising", and "valuable" to describe creativity, which are all, in a sense, applicable to AI outputs. For the derivative argument, the article mentions it being extremely difficult to even trace back outputs to specific images, and therefore argues that they are not direct copies. In my interpretation, this WOULD make outputs generated by GAI derivative. Just because it's difficult to prove the derivation of an output, it doesn't mean it's not. Kind of reminds me of religion and proving the existence of God.

  4. **Should the outputs be entitled to some form of copyright protection? If so, how should we deal with AI authorship?**
  - The article mentions the proposal of a "source indifference" principle, which resonates with the Continental Law. Basically, if the law does not distinguish, neither should we. I mention this because normally, copyright protection requires "human authorship". Here, the article is arguing that if we cannot distinguish between AI-generated works and human works, then the law shouldn't either, therefore giving the outputs entitlement to copyright protection. If I understood that correctly, I think they found a loophole. However, they also mention the dangers that come with this, stating that this would create a sort of an imbalance between public domain and copyrighted content, which I agree with. So much content is made with AI nowadays, everyone would be getting struck with copyright infringements.

## New Discussion Question
  **Why would granting copyright protection to AI create an imbalance to the public domain?**

  - I chose to include this question because it makes readers think deeper about question #4. It would also make readers challenge the "why" behind why copyright is not the right policy tool to deal with Generative AI.
  

## Reflection
  Although this case study's purpose was to explain why we shouldn't use copyright policies when handling GAI, I really liked how it played both sides. Of course, there was a bit of a bias towards the proposed argument, but in considering the other side, we were able to understand the "why" behind the argument better. Some of the concepts I was having trouble understanding until the opposing side was explained. It's kind of like when you're a kid and they tell you not to touch the stove, and then you do it anyway, but now you understand not to touch the stove because it burned you. Anyway, as someone who uses AI to generate images, some of which you can find on my website, this case study definitely made me stop to think about what would happen if GAI outputs were copyrighted. However, I think society would be okay if the change were made now. I say we were doing just fine when GAI was merely just a thought. Perhaps we'd be forced to use our creative brain cells again.
  